<!-- THIS FILE WAS AUTO-GENERATED by gendoc. DO NOT EDIT! -->


includes cjmath.h, sdlutil.h, and Option.h

# Normal functions

## get_string

```C
Option(string) get_string()
```

Read a string from standard input, terminated by a
newline. Returns none() on end of file (when ctl-d is pressed).

## get_int

```C
Option(int) get_int()
```

Read an integer number from standard input, terminated by a
newline. Returns none() on end of file (when ctl-d is pressed).

## get_nat

```C
Option(int) get_nat()
```

Read a natural number from standard input, terminated by a
newline. Returns none() on end of file (when ctl-d is pressed).

## get_nat0

```C
Option(int) get_nat0()
```

Read a natural number or zero from standard input, terminated by a
newline. Returns none() on end of file (when ctl-d is pressed).

## get_float

```C
Option(float) get_float()
```

Read a floating point number or zero from standard input,
terminated by a newline. Returns none() on end of file (when ctl-d is
pressed).

## new_chars

```C
char* new_chars(size_t len)
```

Allocate and return a new array of `len` char values. Aborts
when there is not enough memory (never returns the NULL
pointer). The slots in the returned array are all initialized to
the '\0' char. This is the same as `new_string`.

## new_string

```C
string new_string(size_t len)
```

Allocate and return a new string of capacity `len`. Aborts when
there is not enough memory (never returns the NULL pointer). The
string is set to the empty string. This is the same as
`new_chars`.

## new_strings

```C
string* new_strings(size_t len)
```

Allocate and return a new array of `len` string values. Aborts
when there is not enough memory (never returns the NULL
pointer). The slots in the returned array are all initialized to
the NULL pointer.

## new_ints

```C
int* new_ints(size_t len)
```

Allocate and return a new array of `len` int values. Aborts when
there is not enough memory (never returns the NULL pointer). The
slots in the returned array are all initialized to the value 0.

## new_floats

```C
float* new_floats(size_t len)
```

Allocate and return a new array of `len` float values. Aborts when
there is not enough memory (never returns the NULL pointer). The
slots in the returned array are all initialized to the value 0.

# Generic functions

## print

```C
print(v)
```

Prints the given value for normal text use.

Returns an `int` that when negative signifies an error (check
`errno` for the error in this case), and when positive signifies
the number of bytes written.

Also see `print_debug` and `print_debug_array`, which support more
types, but are not meant for printing output for normal humans.

## print_debug

```C
print_debug(v)
```

Prints the given value in a programmer's view, for debugging
purposes.

Returns an `int` that when negative signifies an error (check
`errno` for the error in this case), and when positive signifies
the number of bytes written.

See `print` for printing as normal text, not for debugging, and
`print_debug_array` for printing arrays.

## print_debug_array

```C
print_debug_array(v, len)
```

Prints the given array in a programmer's view, for debugging
purposes.

Returns an `int` that when negative signifies an error (check
`errno` for the error in this case), and when positive signifies
the number of bytes written.

See `print_debug` for printing non-array values.

## resize

```C
resize(v, oldlen, newlen)
```

Expects an array as the first argument, and the current length of
the array and the desired new length. Returns a new array of the
desired new length. If the new length is shorter than the old
length, the slots that are freed are `drop`ped, if the new length
is larger, then the new slots are filled in with blanks (zero
values, NULL pointers, or similar).

## drop

```C
drop(v)
```

Frees the resources held by the given value (including resources
held by contained values, recursively, unlike the `free` function).

## drop_array

```C
drop_array(v, len)
```

Frees the resources held by the given array,
including all the values contained in the array (including
resources held by contained values, recursively). For arrays
holding pointers, array slots containing the NULL pointer are
skipped.

## equal

```C
equal(a, b)
```

Takes two values of the same type and returns a `bool`. Returns
`true` if `a` and `b` are structurally equivalent.

## some

```C
some(v)
```

Takes a value of some type `T` and returns a `some` variant of
`Option(T)`, containing the value.

## none

```C
none(e)
```

Returns the none variant of `Option(T)` for the type of the given
expression `e`, which is not used at runtime. It might be more
intuitive to just use `none_T()` for the respective type name T,
if possible.

## unwrap

```C
unwrap(v)
```

Takes an `Option(T)` for some type `T` and returns the contained
value of type `T` if it is a `some`, but aborts if it is a `none`.

Example:

```C
Option(string) maybe_name = get_string();
// maybe_name can be a `none()` or e.g. `some("Alex")`.
string name = unwrap(maybe_name);
// Now we're guaranteed to have a string, "Alex" in
// the second case above. But if `maybe_name` was a
// `none()` then the program has terminated now.
```

# Macros

## D

```C
D(expr)
```

`D`ebug: print the expression `expr` and the value it evaluated
to, for debugging purposes (calls `print_debug` on the value).

## DA

```C
DA(expr, len)
```

`D`ebug `A`rray: print the expression `expr` and the array value
it evaluated to, for debugging purposes (calls
`print_debug_array`). `len` must give the length of the array.

<hr>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
