<!-- THIS FILE WAS AUTO-GENERATED by gendoc. DO NOT EDIT! -->


Part of the [`cj50/gen/Vec.h`](../Vec.h.md) library: Operations on
slices and `Vec`s.

The `VEC` type is either `Vec`, `slice` or `mutslice`. It is
called "vectorlike" from here onwards.

# Normal functions

## len_\$VEC_\$T {#one_len_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
size_t len_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self)
```

The number of elements the vectorlike is currently holding.

## is_empty_\$VEC_\$T {#one_is_empty_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
size_t is_empty_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self)
```

Whether the vectorlike has exactly 0 elements.

## equal_\$VEC_\$T {#one_equal_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
bool equal_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *a, const VEC(T) *b)
```

Whether the two vectorlikes have the same number of elements with equal
elements in every position.

## print_debug_\$VEC_\$T {#one_print_debug_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
int print_debug_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self)
```

Print in C code syntax.

## print_debug_move_\$VEC_\$T {#one_print_debug_move_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
int print_debug_move_$VEC_$T(VEC(T) self)
```

Print in C code syntax, consuming the argument.

## at_\$VEC_\$T {#one_at_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
const T* at_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self, size_t idx)
```

Get a read-only reference to the element at position `i`. Aborts if `i` is
behind the end of the vectorlike. If you are not sure if
`i` is valid, use `get` instead.

## get_\$VEC_\$T {#one_get_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
Option(ref(T)) get_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self, size_t idx)
```

Get a read-only reference to the element at position `i`. Returns none if
`i` is behind the end of the vectorlike. If you are sure that `i` is valid,
you can use `at` instead.

## slice_of_\$VEC_\$T {#one_slice_of_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
slice(T) slice_of_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self, Range range)
```

Get a slice of the vectorlike. Aborts for invalid indices. (XX todo:
Use get_slice_* for a variant that returns failures instead.)

## deref_\$VEC_\$T {#one_deref_QordninetwoEQDVEC_QordninetwoEQDT}

```C
slice(T) deref_$VEC_$T(const VEC(T) *self)
```

Get a slice of the whole vectorlike.

<hr>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
