<!-- THIS FILE WAS AUTO-GENERATED by gendoc. DO NOT EDIT! -->


An Option is a type that may sometimes represent some value, and
sometimes no value. Each Option type is specialized for the type of
the value that it may contain. For this reason, the type of that
contained value has to be specified as parameter to `Option`.

An Option has a field `is_some` which specifies whether the Option
value contains a value, in which case the field is `true`, or not (the
`none` case), and a field `value` which contains the actual value if
present (reading the `value` field while `is_some` is `false` is
undefined behaviour, don't do that!). It is the following struct, with
`T` replaced with the type passed to `Option(T)`:

```C
typedef struct Option(T) {
    bool is_some;
    T value;
} Option(T);
```

Member functions for the following generic functions are also defined:

`some(val)`
: Returns an Option where the `is_some` field is set to `true` and the `value` field is set to `val`

`none(T)`
: Returns an Option where the `is_some` field is set to `false`. The `value` field is not valid.

`drop(opt)`
: Calls `drop` on the value in the `value` field if `is_some` is `true`.

`equal(opt1, opt2)`
: Returns `true` if both arguments are structurally equivalent.

`unwrap(opt)`
: Returns the contents of the `value` field if `is_some` is `true`, otherwise aborts the program.

`print_debug(&opt)`
: Print a programmer's view of the Option value, given by reference.

`move_print_debug(opt)`
: Print a programmer's view of the Option value, given by copy.


# Macros

## Option

```C
Option(T) XCAT(Option_,T)
```

This macro creates a type name for an `Option` specific for the
given type name `T`.

Implementation wise, it simply concatenates `Option_` and the
given type name. For this reason, the type name `T` must not
contain spaces, e.g. `unsigned int` would not work and a typedef
like `uint` has to be used instead.

## DEFTYPE_Option

```C
DEFTYPE_Option(T)
```

This macro defines the struct and functions to implement the type
`Option(T)`. It has to be used once for a given type
`T`. Afterwards `Option(T)` can be used any number of times.

## NONE

```C
NONE
```

This macro is a short cut for `none(T)` but can only be used in
variable assignment, e.g.:

```C
Option(float) x = NONE;
```

It cannot be used in a function call like `f(NONE)`, instead
`f(none(float))` has to be used.

<hr>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
