<!-- THIS FILE WAS AUTO-GENERATED by gendoc. DO NOT EDIT! -->


## Overview

A Result is a value that has two variants and can represent either
success with a value of one type, `T`, or an error with an error
value of another type, `E`. It has a field `is_ok` that is `true`
if the Result represents success, in which case the field `ok` is
valid, otherwise the field `err` is valid.

```C
typedef struct Result(T, E) {
    bool is_ok;
    union {
        T ok;
        E err;
    };
} Result(T, E);
```

## Member functions

Member functions for the following generic functions are defined:

`equal(res1, res2)`
: Returns `true` if both arguments are structurally equivalent.

`unwrap(opt)`
: Returns the contents of the `ok` field if `is_ok` is `true`, otherwise aborts the program.

`print_debug(&opt)`
: Print a programmer's view of the Option value, given by reference.

`print_debug_move(opt)`
: Print a programmer's view of the Option value, given by copy.

## Error propagation

By using normal if statements or `if_let_Ok`, you can build the
proper control flow to clean up and return from a function when
you receive an error via `Result` inside said function.
Alternatively, there is a set of macros that makes some of the
tedious parts more automatic: see `BEGIN_Result` and its related
macros.

Example:

```C
Result(Unit, UnicodeError) run(char *str) {
    BEGIN_Result(Unit, UnicodeError);

    CFile in = TRY(memopen_CFile(str, strlen(str), "r"), cleanup1);

    Vec(ucodepoint) v = new_Vec_ucodepoint(); // get us an empty vector

    while_let_Some(c, TRY(get_ucodepoint_unlocked(&in), cleanup2)) {
        push(&v, c); // add c to the vector
    }
    DBG(v); // show the vector

    RETURN_Ok(Unit(), cleanup2); // we have nothing to return so use Unit()

cleanup2:
    drop(in);
cleanup1:
    END_Result();
}
```

The function `run` here tries to get a `CFile` via
`memopen_CFile`, which can fail; if it failed, the error it
returned (a `SystemError`) is converted to a `UnicodeError`, the
program jumps to `cleanup1`, and returns that `UnicodeError` as the
Err variant of `Result(Unit, UnicodeError)`.

Otherwise, `in` is set to the successfully returned `CFile` value,
which needs to be `drop`ed later on.

`while_let_Some` from Option.h expects an Option as its second
argument. `get_ucodepoint_unlocked` returns
`Result(Option(ucodepoint), UnicodeError)`, though. so we use
`TRY` again to extract the `Option(ucodepoint)` in the successful
case, and jump to `cleanup2` in the error case. In that latter
case, the error is already of type `UnicodeError`, thus no
conversion is done, although it still calls the conversion
function `new_UnicodeError_from_UnicodeError` because there is no
way to handle special cases like this via macros.

After the cleanup actions (only one here), `END_Result()` actually
returns the success or error result that was stored in the context
set up by the `BEGIN_Result` macro call.

# Macros

## Result {#three_Result}

```C
Result(T, E) Result_$T__$E
```

This macro creates a type name for a `Result` specific for the
given type names `T` and `E`.

Implementation wise, it simply concatenates `Result_`, `T`, `__`,
`E`. For this reason, the type names `T` and `E` must not contain
spaces, e.g. `unsigned int` would not work and a typedef like
`uint` has to be used instead.

## Ok {#three_Ok}

```C
Ok(T, E) ok_Result_$T__$E
```

Returns the constructor function for the `ok` variant of the `Result(T, E)` type for the given `T` and `E` types. Usage example:

```C
Ok(int, cstr)(42)
```

## Err {#three_Err}

```C
Err(T, E) err_Result_$T__$E
```

Returns the constructor function for the `err` variant of the `Result(T, E)` type for the given `T` and `E` types. Usage example:

```C
Err(int, cstr)("the input does not contain a number")
```

## if_let_Ok {#three_if_let_Ok}

```C
if_let_Ok(var, expr)
```

This macro allows for convenient matching and conditional
execution depending on what case of the Result was
received. CAREFUL: it must always be paired with `else_Err` and
`end_let_Ok`, or weird syntax errors will be reported because
curly braces will not be balanced!

The `var`s are introduced in the given scopes `{ .. }`. Note that
you don't need to specify a type for them, they are derived
automatically. You can still give modifiers like `UNUSED` or
`const`.

```C
if_let_Ok(cnt, filecontents_String(path)) {
    print(cnt);
    drop(cnt);
} else_Err(e) {
    fprintln_SystemError(stderr, e);
} end_let_Ok;
```

## BEGIN_Result {#three_BEGIN_Result}

```C
BEGIN_Result(T, E)
```

This must be placed at the beginning of the function or block in
which you want to use `RETURN_Ok`, `RETURN_Err`, or
`TRY`.

## RETURN_Ok {#three_RETURN_Ok}

```C
RETURN_Ok(val, label)
```

Requires a `BEGIN_Result` in its scope.

Stores `val` as an Ok Result in the context to be returned by
`END_Result` and jumps to `label`. This is to allow the program to
run cleanup actions.

## RETURN_Err {#three_RETURN_Err}

```C
RETURN_Err(errval, label)
```

Requires a `BEGIN_Result` in its scope.

Stores `errval` as an Err Result in the context to be returned by
`END_Result` and jumps to `label`. This is to allow the program to
run cleanup actions.

## TRY {#three_TRY}

```C
TRY(expr, label)
```

Requires a `BEGIN_Result` in its scope.

`expr` must evaluate to a Result. If the Result is an Ok, the
unwrapped value is returned by the `TRY`
expression. If the Result is an Err, it is stored in the context
to be returned by `END_Result` and a jump to `label` is issued;
this is to enable the program to run cleanup actions.

`TRY` automatically inserts `new_from` calls to convert Err values
into the type that was defined using `BEGIN_Result`. If `expr`
returns a Result with an Err type `Given`, and
`BEGIN_Result(SomeType, Wanted)` was stated, this means that a
conversion function `new_Wanted_from_Given` needs to exist, which
needs to be part of the _Generic type dispatch in `new_from_` in
the file `cj50/gen/dispatch/new_from.h`.

## END_Result {#three_END_Result}

```C
END_Result()
```

This must be placed at the very end of the function or block in
which you placed `BEGIN_Result`, after cleanup actions. It always
returns from the function with the Result that was temporarily
stored by `RETURN_Ok`, `RETURN_Err`, or `TRY`.

Requires a `BEGIN_Result` in its scope, as well as one of the 4
forms mentioned above (otherwise it returns an undefined value,
which the compiler will be warning about).

<hr>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
